The best way to teach is to praise positive actions and ignore negative ones.

Various teaching strategies have always been a topic of a lively debate. There is a common believe that the most effective way to teach is to practice positive reinforcement, while ignoring bad results. Personally, I partially disagree with this statement and argue that paying attention to failures is as crucial for learning as doing so to praise success for three reasons. 

To begin with, teaching in general is a very broad and complex subject that may involve diverse approaches depending on the desired results. For instance, when it comes to teaching safety in any aspect of human life, the emphasis is always focused on the possible mistakes, that may occur. Thus, every safety practice involves creation of a safe environment, where teaching subjects are free to make mistakes without any severe consequences. Those mistakes are then meticulously analysed and the corresponding conclusions are drawn in order to prevent same kind of failures in the future. However, positive results in that case are usually left with little attention, simply because they are expected to be a norm.

Moreover, even if we assume that negative actions indeed should be ignored in the teaching process, because it can cause too much stress and frustration for students, what will occur if only positive ones would receive feedback? Most likely such a situation can lead to the excessive confidence. No matter what skill one is pursuing to master, overconfidence is bound to cause devastating results, because the higher the stakes, the easier to underestimate the task given.

However, there are also situations when lack of encouragement can significantly affect performance of a student in a negative way. For example, getting better in sports often involves envisioning successful results and continuously tracking positive results. In my opinion sports is a relative example, because getting better specifically in sports is often based on tiny improvements combined over a large period of time. Leaving this overtime growth unnoticed makes it extremely tempting to give up the training at all.

All in all, I think it is absolutely vital to strike the balance between positive and negative feedback. In the end, the goal of teaching is to make people more skillful in the desired direction than they were before and both of these approaches should be utilized to their full potential in order to achieve this.
