The following appeared in an e-mail sent by the marketing director of the Classical Shakespeare Theatre of Bardville.

"Over the past ten years, there has been a 20 percent decline in the size of the average audience at Classical Shakespeare Theatre productions. In spite of increased advertising, we are attracting fewer and fewer people to our shows, causing our profits to decrease significantly. We must take action to attract new audience members. The best way to do so is by instituting a 'Shakespeare in the Park' program this summer. Two years ago the nearby Avon Repertory Company started a 'Free Plays in the Park' program, and its profits have increased 10 percent since then. Therefore, I recommend that we start a 'Shakespeare in the Park' program of our own. If we do so, I predict that our profits will also see a significant increase."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation is likely to have the predicted result. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

average audience -> attract - program - 

Marketing director of the Classical Shakespeare Theatre of Bardville in his-mail recommends that the theatre should start a 'Shakespear in the Park' program in order to increase the profits. In his opinion doing so is absolutely necessary, because  the same strategy helped Avon Repertory company to increase their profit by 10 percent. However, while the marketing director's recommendation might hold water, it rests on several unfounded assumptions that, if not substantiated, dramatically weaken the persuasiveness of the argument. Thus the following three questions should be addressed.

Firstly, Are really those two theatrical companies are even comparable? It might turned that the approach that helped a different company two years ago will not be viable this time. For instance, the public taste is dynamic, it is very likely that it has changed over the past ten years. As a result, current plays staged at Classical Shakespeare Theatre could be simply outdated and no amount of advertising would be able to fix this problem. Even if we assume that public taste is as unchanging as gravity, there is no guarantee that the same approach would help to increase the average audience in the case of Classical Shakespeare Theatre. For example, the real reason behind the average audience decline might be a decrease in actors performance. Suppose the theatre will promote their poor acting for free in public places like the park. Then there will be no surprise if sales will go down even further. If either of those scenarios proves true then the assertion of the author is significantly hampered.

Secondly, if we assume that the new program will increase the profits by 10 percent, as it happened in the case of Avon Repertory Company, it may still not be enough to cover the loss of 20 percent of the audience. If the author will be able to support his premise with additional research it will substantially increase the credibility of the argument.

Finally, what was the reason behind 20 percent audience decline in the first place? At a first glance, it is unlikely that the core problem is connected to the lack of advertisement. However, the marketing director does not mention since when exactly it was increased. It might as well increased only in the past year, which simply can not be long enough to cover the lack of audience awareness for the past ten years. If the above question remains unanswered, the conclusion of the marketing director is weakened significantly.

All in all, the argument, as it stands now is considerably flawed due to its reliance on several unwarranted assumptions. If the marketing manager is able to answer the three questions above and offer more evidence, then it will be able to fully evaluate the viability of the proposed recommendation. 
